README_Redis.md, before:

# Two methods: Naked load vs Redis load

## Google Naked Load
In this version, the server must perform multiple "Search" and "Fetch" operations on every request. Even with Next.js revalidate: 30, every cache miss triggers a cascade of network calls to Google.

```
// lib/drive/loader-naked.ts
import { auth } from "@/auth"; // Your NextAuth configuration

export async function getSmartBundleNaked(basename: string) {
  const session = await auth();
  const accessToken = session?.accessToken;

  if (!accessToken) throw new Error("Unauthorized");

  // 1. SEARCH for the JSON and associated images using the basename
  const searchParams = new URLSearchParams({
    q: `name contains '${basename}' and trashed = false`,
    fields: "files(id, name, mimeType)",
  });

  const listRes = await fetch(`https://www.googleapis.com/drive/v3/files?${searchParams.toString()}`, {
    headers: { Authorization: `Bearer ${accessToken}` },
    next: { revalidate: 30 },
  });
  const { files } = await listRes.json();

  // 2. AGGREGATE files into the .bun structure
  const jsonFile = files.find(f => f.name === `${basename}.json`);
  const imageFiles = files.filter(f => f.name.includes(`${basename}-p`) && f.mimeType.includes("image"));

  // 3. FETCH the actual JSON content (Media fetch)
  const contentRes = await fetch(`https://www.googleapis.com/drive/v3/files/${jsonFile.id}?alt=media`, {
    headers: { Authorization: `Bearer ${accessToken}` },
  });
  const primaryData = await contentRes.json();

  return { kind: "smartBundle", primaryData, gallery: imageFiles };
}
```

## Redis-d Google Load

In this version, Redis stores the "Roadmap," and the app only hits Google Drive for the specific file IDs it already knows

```
// lib/drive/loader-redis.ts
import { auth } from "@/auth";
import { Redis } from '@upstash/redis';

const redis = new Redis({ url: process.env.UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_URL, token: process.env.UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_TOKEN });

export async function getSmartBundleOptimized(basename: string) {
  const session = await auth();
  const accessToken = session?.accessToken;
  if (!accessToken) throw new Error("Unauthorized");

  // 1. REDIS LOOKUP: Skip the 'list/search' API call entirely
  let manifest = await redis.get(`manifest:${basename}`);

  if (!manifest) {
    // If cache missing, run the "Naked" search logic once to rebuild manifest
    manifest = await rebuildAndCacheManifest(basename, accessToken);
  }

  // 2. DIRECT FETCH: Use Parallel Promises to fetch specific IDs
  // This is significantly faster because 'files/{id}' is a direct lookup in Drive
  const [jsonRes, ...imageMeta] = await Promise.all([
    fetch(`https://www.googleapis.com/drive/v3/files/${manifest.jsonId}?alt=media`, {
      headers: { Authorization: `Bearer ${accessToken}` }
    }),
    ...manifest.imageIds.map(id => 
      fetch(`https://www.googleapis.com/drive/v3/files/${id}?fields=id,name`, {
        headers: { Authorization: `Bearer ${accessToken}` }
      })
    )
  ]);

  const primaryData = await jsonRes.json();
  return { kind: "smartBundle", primaryData, gallery: imageMeta };
}
```

Given your context—**30GB of total data**, a **low-frequency access pattern (500 loads/day)**, and the use of **Vercel + NextAuth**—the choice between these methods is less about raw throughput and more about **consistency of experience** and **API resilience**.

With 500 loads per day, you are safely within the free tiers of both Google Drive API (per-user limits) and Upstash Redis. However, the "Naked" load will feel significantly "heavier" to the end-user due to the way Google Drive handles search queries versus direct ID lookups.

### Performance & Operational Comparison

| Metric | Google Naked Load (Search-Based) | Redis-cached Load (Manifest-Based) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **Typical Latency (Cold)** | **1,200ms – 2,500ms** | **300ms – 600ms** |
| **Typical Latency (Warm)** | ~800ms (Next.js Data Cache hit) | **~250ms** |
| **Google API Calls** | 2+ (List/Search + Get Content) | 1 (Direct Get Content) |
| **Search Overhead** | High (Drive scans folder metadata) | Zero (ID is provided by Redis) |
| **Reliability** | Susceptible to Drive search indexing delays | Highly consistent |
| **Rate Limit Impact** | High (Search queries are "expensive") | Very Low (Direct ID gets are "cheap") |
| **Vercel Execution Time** | Consumes more "Function Duration" | Minimizes Execution Duration |

---

#### 1. Why Naked Load is slow (even at low volume)

The Google Drive `list` API (used in your Naked snippet) is not a database query in the traditional sense. When you search by `name contains`, Google has to crawl your file metadata. Even with only 30GB of data, if that data consists of thousands of small files (like images in a `.bun`), the search latency is unpredictable. Furthermore, `next: { revalidate: 30 }` only helps if the same bundle is accessed repeatedly within 30 seconds. For a personal vault with 500 loads/day, you will likely hit "Cold" loads often.

#### 2. Why Redis is superior for "Virtual Bundles"

A `.bun` is a virtual construct. The Naked load has to "calculate" what belongs in the bundle every single time by searching for prefixes.

* **The Redis Roadmap:** Redis stores the result of that calculation. Instead of asking Google "Find everything starting with *abc1234*", you are telling Google "Give me file *ID_1* and *ID_2*."
* **Parallelism:** Because the Redis manifest provides all IDs upfront, your code uses `Promise.all` to fetch the JSON and image metadata simultaneously. In the Naked version, you must wait for the Search to finish before you even know which IDs to fetch.

#### 3. Security and NextAuth

Both methods are equally secure because the actual **content fetch** still requires the `accessToken` from NextAuth. Redis only stores the "Roadmap" (IDs and filenames), not the private binary data itself. If a user's session expires, they can see the "roadmap" from Redis, but the `fetch` to Google Drive for the actual data will fail, maintaining your security boundary.

### Summary Recommendation

Even for a personal vault with low traffic, **use the Redis-d approach**.

1. **User Experience:** It turns a 2-second "spinning wheel" page load into a sub-500ms "instant" feel.
2. **Resilience:** If Google Drive's search index lags (which happens frequently where a newly uploaded file doesn't show up in `list` results for a few seconds), the Redis manifest acts as a bridge to ensure the file is accessible immediately via its ID.
3. **Cost:** At 500 loads/day, Upstash Redis will remain **100% Free** (well under their 10k/day limit), and you'll save on Vercel's serverless execution minutes.


## upstash goal: Drive file Ids to skip search/list calls

redisClient.
```
import { Redis } from "@upstash/redis";

export const redis = new Redis({
  url: process.env.UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_URL!,
  token: process.env.UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_TOKEN!,
});
```

mainfestCache.ts
```
import { redis } from "./redisClient";

export type Manifest = {
  jsonId: string;
  imageIds: string[];
  updatedAt: number;
};

export async function getManifest(basename: string): Promise<Manifest | null> {
  return (await redis.get<Manifest>(`manifest:${basename}`)) ?? null;
}

export async function setManifest(basename: string, manifest: Manifest) {
  await redis.set(`manifest:${basename}`, manifest, { ex: 60 * 60 }); // 1h TTL
}

```

driveLoader.ts
```
import { getManifest, setManifest } from "./manifestCache";

async function buildManifestFromDrive(basename: string, token: string) {
  // 1) Drive list/search by basename
  // 2) Extract jsonId + imageIds
  // (Pseudo implementation)
  return { jsonId: "abc", imageIds: ["id1", "id2"], updatedAt: Date.now() };
}

export async function getBundle(basename: string, token: string) {
  let manifest = await getManifest(basename);
  if (!manifest) {
    manifest = await buildManifestFromDrive(basename, token);
    await setManifest(basename, manifest);
  }

  // Direct Drive fetch by ID using manifest
  // return bundle data...
}
```

Commit message:

Add Drive manifest cache helper

README_Redis.md, after:

# Two methods: Naked load vs Redis load

> ⚠️ This document is historical background. The current implementation uses a Drive-hosted `manifest.json` as the page-tree directory and does **not** use Redis or Cloudflare KV.

## Google Naked Load
In this version, the server must perform multiple "Search" and "Fetch" operations on every request. Even with Next.js revalidate: 30, every cache miss triggers a cascade of network calls to Google.

```
// lib/drive/loader-naked.ts
import { auth } from "@/auth"; // Your NextAuth configuration

export async function getSmartBundleNaked(basename: string) {
  const session = await auth();
  const accessToken = session?.accessToken;

  if (!accessToken) throw new Error("Unauthorized");

  // 1. SEARCH for the JSON and associated images using the basename
  const searchParams = new URLSearchParams({
    q: `name contains '${basename}' and trashed = false`,
    fields: "files(id, name, mimeType)",
  });

  const listRes = await fetch(`https://www.googleapis.com/drive/v3/files?${searchParams.toString()}`, {
    headers: { Authorization: `Bearer ${accessToken}` },
    next: { revalidate: 30 },
  });
  const { files } = await listRes.json();

  // 2. AGGREGATE files into the .bun structure
  const jsonFile = files.find(f => f.name === `${basename}.json`);
  const imageFiles = files.filter(f => f.name.includes(`${basename}-p`) && f.mimeType.includes("image"));

  // 3. FETCH the actual JSON content (Media fetch)
  const contentRes = await fetch(`https://www.googleapis.com/drive/v3/files/${jsonFile.id}?alt=media`, {
    headers: { Authorization: `Bearer ${accessToken}` },
  });
  const primaryData = await contentRes.json();

  return { kind: "smartBundle", primaryData, gallery: imageFiles };
}
```

## Redis-d Google Load

In this version, Redis stores the "Roadmap," and the app only hits Google Drive for the specific file IDs it already knows

```
// lib/drive/loader-redis.ts
import { auth } from "@/auth";
import { Redis } from '@upstash/redis';

const redis = new Redis({ url: process.env.UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_URL, token: process.env.UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_TOKEN });

export async function getSmartBundleOptimized(basename: string) {
  const session = await auth();
  const accessToken = session?.accessToken;
  if (!accessToken) throw new Error("Unauthorized");

  // 1. REDIS LOOKUP: Skip the 'list/search' API call entirely
  let manifest = await redis.get(`manifest:${basename}`);

  if (!manifest) {
    // If cache missing, run the "Naked" search logic once to rebuild manifest
    manifest = await rebuildAndCacheManifest(basename, accessToken);
  }

  // 2. DIRECT FETCH: Use Parallel Promises to fetch specific IDs
  // This is significantly faster because 'files/{id}' is a direct lookup in Drive
  const [jsonRes, ...imageMeta] = await Promise.all([
    fetch(`https://www.googleapis.com/drive/v3/files/${manifest.jsonId}?alt=media`, {
      headers: { Authorization: `Bearer ${accessToken}` }
    }),
    ...manifest.imageIds.map(id => 
      fetch(`https://www.googleapis.com/drive/v3/files/${id}?fields=id,name`, {
        headers: { Authorization: `Bearer ${accessToken}` }
      })
    )
  ]);

  const primaryData = await jsonRes.json();
  return { kind: "smartBundle", primaryData, gallery: imageMeta };
}
```

Given your context—**30GB of total data**, a **low-frequency access pattern (500 loads/day)**, and the use of **Vercel + NextAuth**—the choice between these methods is less about raw throughput and more about **consistency of experience** and **API resilience**.

With 500 loads per day, you are safely within the free tiers of both Google Drive API (per-user limits) and Upstash Redis. However, the "Naked" load will feel significantly "heavier" to the end-user due to the way Google Drive handles search queries versus direct ID lookups.

### Performance & Operational Comparison

| Metric | Google Naked Load (Search-Based) | Redis-cached Load (Manifest-Based) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **Typical Latency (Cold)** | **1,200ms – 2,500ms** | **300ms – 600ms** |
| **Typical Latency (Warm)** | ~800ms (Next.js Data Cache hit) | **~250ms** |
| **Google API Calls** | 2+ (List/Search + Get Content) | 1 (Direct Get Content) |
| **Search Overhead** | High (Drive scans folder metadata) | Zero (ID is provided by Redis) |
| **Reliability** | Susceptible to Drive search indexing delays | Highly consistent |
| **Rate Limit Impact** | High (Search queries are "expensive") | Very Low (Direct ID gets are "cheap") |
| **Vercel Execution Time** | Consumes more "Function Duration" | Minimizes Execution Duration |

---

#### 1. Why Naked Load is slow (even at low volume)

The Google Drive `list` API (used in your Naked snippet) is not a database query in the traditional sense. When you search by `name contains`, Google has to crawl your file metadata. Even with only 30GB of data, if that data consists of thousands of small files (like images in a `.bun`), the search latency is unpredictable. Furthermore, `next: { revalidate: 30 }` only helps if the same bundle is accessed repeatedly within 30 seconds. For a personal vault with 500 loads/day, you will likely hit "Cold" loads often.

#### 2. Why Redis is superior for "Virtual Bundles"

A `.bun` is a virtual construct. The Naked load has to "calculate" what belongs in the bundle every single time by searching for prefixes.

* **The Redis Roadmap:** Redis stores the result of that calculation. Instead of asking Google "Find everything starting with *abc1234*", you are telling Google "Give me file *ID_1* and *ID_2*."
* **Parallelism:** Because the Redis manifest provides all IDs upfront, your code uses `Promise.all` to fetch the JSON and image metadata simultaneously. In the Naked version, you must wait for the Search to finish before you even know which IDs to fetch.

#### 3. Security and NextAuth

Both methods are equally secure because the actual **content fetch** still requires the `accessToken` from NextAuth. Redis only stores the "Roadmap" (IDs and filenames), not the private binary data itself. If a user's session expires, they can see the "roadmap" from Redis, but the `fetch` to Google Drive for the actual data will fail, maintaining your security boundary.

### Summary Recommendation

Even for a personal vault with low traffic, **use the Redis-d approach**.

1. **User Experience:** It turns a 2-second "spinning wheel" page load into a sub-500ms "instant" feel.
2. **Resilience:** If Google Drive's search index lags (which happens frequently where a newly uploaded file doesn't show up in `list` results for a few seconds), the Redis manifest acts as a bridge to ensure the file is accessible immediately via its ID.
3. **Cost:** At 500 loads/day, Upstash Redis will remain **100% Free** (well under their 10k/day limit), and you'll save on Vercel's serverless execution minutes.


## upstash goal: Drive file Ids to skip search/list calls

redisClient.
```
import { Redis } from "@upstash/redis";

export const redis = new Redis({
  url: process.env.UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_URL!,
  token: process.env.UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_TOKEN!,
});
```

mainfestCache.ts
```
import { redis } from "./redisClient";

export type Manifest = {
  jsonId: string;
  imageIds: string[];
  updatedAt: number;
};

export async function getManifest(basename: string): Promise<Manifest | null> {
  return (await redis.get<Manifest>(`manifest:${basename}`)) ?? null;
}

export async function setManifest(basename: string, manifest: Manifest) {
  await redis.set(`manifest:${basename}`, manifest, { ex: 60 * 60 }); // 1h TTL
}

```

driveLoader.ts
```
import { getManifest, setManifest } from "./manifestCache";

async function buildManifestFromDrive(basename: string, token: string) {
  // 1) Drive list/search by basename
  // 2) Extract jsonId + imageIds
  // (Pseudo implementation)
  return { jsonId: "abc", imageIds: ["id1", "id2"], updatedAt: Date.now() };
}

export async function getBundle(basename: string, token: string) {
  let manifest = await getManifest(basename);
  if (!manifest) {
    manifest = await buildManifestFromDrive(basename, token);
    await setManifest(basename, manifest);
  }

  // Direct Drive fetch by ID using manifest
  // return bundle data...
}
```
